- yen one of the ways I first try to get
people to think about veganism is in
terms of what I call scale and Futurity
so when I was living in the island of
Taiwan it's a very peculiar context to
be preaching veganism and I would sign
up to ask people for example look this
is a pretty small island we have more
than 30 million people living on this
island if all 30 million people eat pork
every day how many pigs do you think
have to live on on this same small
island and at the time I looked up the
statistic I knew approximately how many
million pigs the Rinella so let's say it
was 100 million pigs all those pigs they
eat food every day right they drink
water every day they generate feces in
plain language they have to poo every
day and that poos got to go somewhere
does it go into a sewage system no it
goes into a river right so on this
island today how many rivers still have
unpolluted water that's safe to drink
straight out of the river I think the
answer was zero so when we're looking to
the future tell you about these 30
million people on this small island with
a hundred million pigs how long how long
do you think it's gonna go on for the
forest is already gone we can't drink
the water in the rivers about ninety
percent of this island you can't breathe
the air so air pollution in Taiwan is
terrible you know this situation so you
think it's gonna go on for a hundred
years do you think this is gonna go on
for a thousand years do you think five
hundred years from now we're gonna have
30 million people keeping alive a
hundred million pigs so they can eat
food that we know is unhealthy
unnecessary and as all these
consequences but it actually isn't
opening the topic in a way that's about
your plate your health your diet your
moral character the name that trade
argument that Isaac presents makes this
very precisely about whether or not you
look in the mirror
and think of yourself as a moral or an
immoral human being about us yen hey
guys I just came from a sincere
conversation between vegans / discord
who were really talking about what is
there a game what are the cards they
play what are the arguments they deploy
when they're explaining veganism to
meat-eaters and when basically they are
trying to persuade meat-eaters to try
veganism adopt veganism or at least take
veganism seriously as an ethical
position and this conversation was
framed to some extent by the fact that
many of the people in the room many
people having the conversation were
themselves really frustrated and
impatient with the name that trait
argument advanced by ask yourself so in
this video I'm going to very briefly
mention basically what are the vegan
mind tricks that I deploy what I like to
use when I'm having that kind of
conversation when I'm presenting
veganism to meat eaters who are like
their low-key hostile against it or just
never thought about it before in most
cases you're talking about people who
are not anti vegan but they just have no
position on it they've never thought
thought these issues - before or indeed
they may have some degree of hostility
and resistance and I'm gonna improv us
point out one aspect of Isaac's name
that trade argument the argument that's
now been promoted so much by ask
yourself and fecund gains in the last
year something I pointed out this
discussion that I think was genuinely
new to a roomful of people who are
really experienced with hashing out the
implications and inadequacies of the
name that trade argument is that this
argument originates from the philosophy
of Peter Singer and it's actually been
adapted and profoundly changed in its
purpose by ask yourself aka Isaac and I
think to some extent he's aware of the
adaptation and to some extent he's not
when Peter Singer made the argument that
one ought to name the trait that
justifies killing animals and that would
consistently be applied to justify
killing humans his implicit purpose was
not what Isaac's purposes Isaac States
his position as being anti stabbing
he's being cute and joking that way he
doesn't think there's a justification
for stabbing any animal basically and
that likewise he doesn't think there's
any justifications gonna apply to human
beings this way it's quite insidious
that Peter singers purpose in deploying
the same argument to believe first
appeared in marginal cases Peter Singer
but also in deploying this type of
reasoning because Peter Singer has many
orbits along these lines not necessarily
precisely following this logical formula
he's not trying to argue that the lives
of all animals are sacrosanct and he's
not trying to argue that the lives of
all human beings are sacred sacrosanct
Peter singers position is instead that
killing animals is completely morally
neutral he is in favor of killing
animals because of his so-called
cognitivist bias and he has spent his
entire career arguing for likewise the
right to kill human beings when their
level of cognition drops below a certain
standard and he never quite defines what
that is so he does believe for example
that human beings have the right to
exterminate other human beings who are
severely mentally now he
doesn't mean someone with a very minor
mental disability I don't he doesn't
mean wiping out everyone who has
dyslexia but when you read criticisms of
his work points out that it is somewhat
troubling that he refuses to in any way
commit to what the moral standard is
that he wants to be applied or how that
would be different from his perspective
for a couple terminating a pregnancy ie
having an elective abortion because they
know what a disability in the child yet
to be that may be minor or may be
major or may be somewhere between as
opposed to actually exterminating human
being after they've been born as a baby
as a teenager as an adult or what have
you so Peter singers moral position is
actually in favor of slaughtering
animals if you don't believe me you can
google this right now and you can see
all the arguments on it you can Gary you
can Google Gary French Sione's name also
because he's made a
we're out of cataloging all these very
embarrassing things that Peter Singer
says in favor of killing and
slaughtering animals Peter singers
position is strictly speaking not vegan
although it comes close enough that many
people mistake Peter Singer for an
ethical vegan which he is not
so anyway I'm not gonna go further to
summarize the philosophy of Singer but
what we have right now is actually very
peculiar situation in which ask yourself
Isaac has adapted the moral purpose of
the name that trade argument he has
adapted
both the allegory and the actual thing
of being represented by the allegory
this is originally an argument in favor
of exterminating more partly
exterminating mentally disabled human
beings who fall below a certain standard
and likewise of justifying the
extermination of animals within a
certain peculiar animal rights animal
liberation framework I can quote Peter
Singer verbatim from memory his position
is that quote you know as long as the
animals are treated decently really
decently it is he argues ok to slaughter
them with envelopes and indeed ok to eat
their flesh after they've been
slaughtered which is not a position any
vegan would agree with and therefore
it's ridiculous to confuse with ethical
veganism so this isn't misstated the
conversation is participated in was
asking a question then well if name the
trait isn't the most persuasive way to
approach these problems what is and a
couple of people contributed from their
experience how they actually approach
media is how they actually you know
basically try to broach this topic of
conversation so I heard other people's
suggestions and I said look if I can put
in mine from experience one of the ways
I first try to get people to think about
veganism is in terms of what I call
scale and Futurity so when I was living
in the island of Taiwan should very
peculiar contacts to be preaching
veganism and I would sign up to ask
people for exam
look this is a pretty small island we
have more than 30 million people living
on this island if all 30 million people
eat pork every day how many pigs do you
think have to live on on this same small
island to feed those 30 million people
so this is the question of scale now
most of the time people speak to would
just respond since they'd never thought
about it before and at the time I looked
up the statistic I knew approximately
how many million pigs they were now so
let's say it was 100 million pigs it's
like well guess what it's like a four to
one ratio or something we have more than
a hundred million pigs sharing the same
island all those pigs they eat food
every day right they drink water every
day they generate feces in plain
language they have to poo every day and
that poos got to go somewhere does it go
into a sewage system
no it goes into a river right so on this
island today how many rivers still have
unpolluted water that's safe to drink
straight out of the river I think the
answer is zero right so talking in this
way about questions of scale and then
shifting to implicitly questions of
sustainability in talking about the
future now I do that for many reasons
including the fact that I don't want to
tackle traditional values I don't want
to tackle what your grandmother taught
you about eating meat or how meaningful
it is in Christian Jewish or Muslim
tradition or whatever it is one thought
with the future is say so when we're
looking to the future tell you about
these 30 million people on this small
island with a hundred million pigs how
long how long do you think it's gonna go
on for the forest is already gone we
can't drink the water in the rivers
about 90% of this island you can't
breathe the air so air pollution in
Taiwan is terrible you know this
situation so you think it's gonna go on
for a hundred years do you think this is
gonna go on for a thousand years do you
think five hundred years from now we're
gonna have 30 million people keeping
alive a hundred million pigs so they can
eat food that we
was unhealthy unnecessary and has all
these consequences now again this is
talking about opening the subject with
somebody who hasn't thought about it
probably is loki hostel the idea but
it's actually isn't opening the topic in
a way that's about your plate your
health your diet your moral character
the name that trade argument that Isaac
presents makes this very precisely about
whether or not you look in the mirror
and think of yourself as a moral or an
amoral human being he very quickly gets
into allegations of you know slave
ownership and rape asking questions are
you morally equivalent to a rapist and
so on and I realized he's doing this
partly just to create you know what he
thinks of as entertaining videos on the
internet but this is obviously a very
hostile kind of productive way to
actually carry out outreach and public
education on veganism um and now the
conversation may eventually go there I
mean I think that is something if
somebody is really interested they're
asking you about the ethical property
maybe you do get on to talking about you
know these kinds of parallelism but
talking about the future is very
different from talking about the history
of slavery or history in any category
it's the sense of Futurity and the sense
of scale in a sense this alienates the
discussion from the close confines of me
and my moral character the food on my
plate
etc and gets us thinking from a
bird's-eye view or even a satellite view
about the whole landscape the whole
island the whole country the whole
planet and the long-term consequences of
what now seems like a trivial short-term
sensory indulgence the idea that you
know what you eat for lunch is really so
many people or so important compared to
this you know tremendous sense of moment
and consequence all right
anyway the next question that was asked
in this discussion I just participated
on concerned the question of well what
do you do then when people want to move
on to the ethical question you know even
if you open this way or that way
because there were other suggestions
from other
the discussion or how to open the
conversation what then if if their
specific interest the person who talked
to you where they want to press on to
the direction they take is to talk about
the ethics wouldn't you then turn to to
name that trade as an argument wouldn't
that be useful and you know various
people said no and offered their their
approach and after they spoke I said oh
I'd also also to mention what what
direction I take it in there and I the
Lord of the discussion was about the
nature of virtue and obligation and a
lot of the interest was in consistency
because Isaac's approach is all about
moral consistency and saying to people
well you you must desire to be
consistent if you don't want to be
consistent then you're as bad as an
ax-murderer sort of thing and then base
building or consistency so I pointed out
in contrast to this that my own approach
is not built on an appeal to consistency
in this way but is instead I think can
be called and appealed egoism you'll see
what I mean in the following sense
and when I say egoism you're gonna see I
don't mean weight loss or lift or being
more beautiful or being more powerful
with this sort of thing an argument I've
made several times in this channel that
I made many times face to face with
people in real life is to ask people
well ethically morally or otherwise why
do you refuse to use cocaine there are
negative consequences to using cocaine
yes there are side effects there were
health effects there are even ecological
and political effects you know to using
cocaine but I think it bought them for
most people the reason why they don't
use cocaine is that they don't want to
be the sort of person who uses cocaine
people refuse to smoke crack because
they don't want to be a crackhead you
know there really is a sense in which I
can say or I can I can concede the point
that someone may say to me well if you
eat one hamburger today that doesn't
have this immediate effect on ecology
this doesn't have this immediate effect
in the ecology in front of me on the
economy it doesn't have this immediate
effect on the lives and deaths of
animals ie the particular
was involved are still going to be
slaughtered whether or not one person
buys one one hamburger and in the same
sense people can rationalize and make
excuses for using cocaine even whether
it's oh and I should say also sorry if
somebody eats a hamburger they're not
going to have an immediate push-button
effect whereby eating one hamburger
they're gonna have one heart attack or
they're gonna eat a hamburger and
they're gonna have cancer there isn't
some kind of direct they're not even
with gaining weight people can eat
hamburgers and stay skinny there are
lots of people to do and brag about on
the internet you know there isn't going
to be this kind of direct
cause-and-effect relationship and the
same way you can't really argue
persuasively to someone that if they use
cocaine once or once a year that it's
going to have this disastrous impact of
their life in terms of health in terms
of mental alacrity even in terms of the
the damage done of the tissue in their
nose which is horrible for cocaine
cocaine has all kinds of terrible folks
don't get me wrong but they won't have
this direct visible cause-and-effect
reaction that perhaps we'd like to be
able to appeal to in making this kind of
argument the reality is at bottom in
your heart of hearts when you look in
the mirror the fundamental reason why
you never use cocaine not just not why
you're not an addict but why you
wouldn't even use it occasionally why
you wouldn't use it once in a while or a
couple of times a year is that you do
not want to be that sort of person this
is a question of who you want to be who
you aspire to be not lifestyle but
identity and that is why I say this is
an argument from egoism or a document
for egoism it's an egoistic argument
rather than one based on on consistency
mm I think you could logically find
fault with that that it's not the case
that people refuse to commit murder
because they don't want to be a murderer
but I think when we're talking about the
discipline of never eating meat in
contrast to just eating less meat and
cutters to being an inconsistent person
who cares about the animals to some
extent but still eats free-range meat is
on their terms of making the commitment
and not being a reduce Italian but to
being an absolute vegan
I think that that question of identity
and egoism is is a very fundamental part
of it and we normally express that more
in terms of passion in terms of a
positive aspiration to make the world a
better place
but yes at bar there is a question of
ego and identity of taking pride in
saying no I'm the kind of person who
doesn't compromise I'm the kind of
person who never dabbles in this stuff
who never touches cocaine who never
touches pork who never touches beef
whatever it may be I'm making a further
commitment and I think all of us feel it
even if it becomes something we're so
accustomed to that we can sometimes
forget that we're vegan that once you
get used to the discipline of living as
a vegan it's it's not such a burden at
all it feels light on your shoulders
because you've got the discipline of of
living that way that's still yes
fundamentally there is an element if you
go there and I think it's honest for
both parties to jump jump to that
conclusion and to talk about that
because ultimately what you're inviting
this person to do is take that next step
and make that same commitment themselves
[Laughter]
bonus yen